Inner_peace_in_islam 

Inner pease is reached by submitting to God

heafter is our focus?  If we sit down with a person and all we talk about are the latest cars, expensive houses, traveling and holidays and money, if the majority of our conversations is about material things or it is gossip, talking about this person and that person then it means that the Hereafter is not our focus.  If the Hereafter was our focus then it would be reflected in our conversation.  This is a very basic level in which we can judge ourselves, so we should stop and ask ourselves, “What do we spend most of our time talking about”?

If we find that our priority is this world, then we need to re-focus, we need to put “first things first”, meaning the Hereafter before the life of this world, and if we do this we can achieve inner peace, and God informed us of this in the Quran, a precise step to take in order to attain inner peace, and God says:

“Verily, in the remembrance of God do hearts find rest.” (Quran 13:28)

So it is only by the remembrance of God that hearts find rest.  This is the inner peace.  The remembrance of God is in everything we do as Muslims.  Islam is living a life remembering God, and God says:

“Perform the prayer for My remembrance…” (Quran 20:14)

Everything that we do (in Islam) involves the remembrance of God as Muslims.  God says:

“Say: ‘Indeed, my prayer, my sacrifice, my living and dying are for God, Lord of all the worlds.’” (Quran 6:162)


In summary, the search for inner peace involves recognizing the problems that we have in our lives, recognizing our obstacles, recognizing that inner peace will only come when we identify those obstacles and understand which of them we can change and that we focus on those obstacles we can change, the ones which are related to our self.

If we change our self then God will change the world around us and give us the means to deal with the world around us.  Even though the world is in turmoil God gives us inner peace with it.

This life is a test and it is a transitory life, God is preparing us for the life to come. Those who believed in Tawhid (pure Islamic monotheism) and followed it with good deeds God will reward them with paradise (the life we discussed in earlier topic under the title: Life In Paradise) in addition; God will do away with their pain that they experienced in this life, in a way that they will not even know that they ever experienced pain.

Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him) said:

Among the inmates of Hell, a person who had led the most luxurious life in this world will be brought up on the Day of Resurrection and dipped in the Fire and will be asked: 'O son of Adam! Did you ever experience any comfort? Did you happen to get any luxury?' He will reply: 'By Allah, no, my Lord.' And then one of the people of Paradise who had experienced extreme misery in the life of this world will be dipped in Paradise. Then he will be asked: 'O son of Adam! Did you ever experience any misery? Did you ever encounter difficulty?' He will say: "By Allah, no my Lord, I neither experienced misery nor passed through hardship".

[Muslim].

Whatever happens we know that it is God’s destiny and that it is God’s trials and we know that ultimately it is for our good and has good in it.  God created us in this world and the world as a means to attain Paradise and the trials of this world is our own spiritual growth.  If we can accept all this, accepting God in our hearts then we can find inner peace
